=head1 NAME

wolf (=work on latex file) provides a simple LaTeX IDE.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

similar to latexmk, this program compiles a latex file to pdf using 'pdflatex' and 
'bibtex' everytime the latex file or bibtex file or included files change.
Additionally this tool opens your favourite latex editor and your favourite 
viewer automatically.
At the end of compiling a summary of all errors and warnings is printed.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

wolf latexfile [options]

  latexfile                latex file to be compiled
      --editor=string      text editor to use (default = choose automatically)
      --min-crossrefs=int  min-crossrefs param for bibtex
      --exit               exit after compilation (default: continue until ctrl-c)
      --no-colors          don't use colors on output
      --no-format-output   don't format output of pdflatex and bibtex
      --pdfviewer=string   pdf viewer to use (default = choose automatically)
      --no-gui             short for --pdfviewer=none --editors=none

  -V, --version            display version and exit.
  -h, --help               display brief help
      --man                display long help (man page)
  -q, --silent             same as --verbose=0
  -v, --verbose            same as --verbose=1 (default)
  -vv,--very-verbose       same as --verbose=2
  -v, --verbose=x          grade of verbosity
                            x=0: no output
                            x=1: default output
                            x=2: much output

=head1 EXAMPLES

  wolf mydoc.tex
    starts gvim (if found), starts kpdf, evince, ocular or acroread (whatever is 
    found first), starts compiling mydoc.tex on every change.

  wolf mydoc
    same as above

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 8

=item B<--colors>, B<--no-colors>, B<--nocolors>

wolf is able to use colors for highlighting errors and warnings
default = B<--colors>

=item B<--editor>=I<string>

latex editor that shall be used. default: I<string> = choose automatically from 
one of "gvim|kile|emacs|kate" whatever is found first.

you may choose I<string> as 'emacs' to force trying emacs only or you may choose 
I<string> as 'gvim|emacs' to try gvim at first, and emacs if gvim can't be loaded

if I<string> is 'none', then no editor will be loaded.

=item B<--exit>

by default wolf will run in an endless loop. with setting --exit you can force wolf 
to exit after compilation

=item B<--format-output>, B<--no-format-output>, B<--noformat-output>

wolf is able to re-format the stdout-output of pdflatex and bibtex in a better
readable way. it then tries to indent lines and reformat line-breaks.
default = B<--format-output>

=item B<--no-gui>, B<--nogui>

just a short cut for B<--pdfviewer>=I<none> B<--editor>=I<none>

=item B<--min-crossrefs>=I<int>

bibtex will automatically add a cross-referenced entry to the bibliography if the 
number of references using the cross-reference attribute \crossref is equal to or 
greater than I<int>. if you omit the param, then the default value (normaly 2) 
of bibtex will be used. some bibliography styles need a modification of this param,
e.g. for IEEEtran this should be set to 900, according to 
http://tug.ctan.org/biblio/bibtex/contrib/IEEEtran/IEEEtran_bst_HOWTO.pdf.

wolf tries to detect the bibliography style. if it detects 'IEEEtran', then I<int> 
will be set automatically to 900, unless you did not set it manually.

=item B<--pdflatex-output>, B<--no-pdflatex-output>, B<--nopdflatex-output>

if B<--no-pdflatex-output> is set, pdflatex's output will not be displayed, except 
for summary of errors/warnings

default = B<--pdflatex-output>

=item B<--pdfviewer>=I<string>, B<--pdf-viewer>=I<string>

pdf viewer that shall be used. default: I<string> = choose automatically from one 
of "evince|kpdf|okular|acroread" whatever is found first.

you may choose I<string> as 'okular' to force trying okular only. or you may choose
I<string> as 'kpdf|evince' to try kpdf at first and evince only if kpdf can't be 
loaded.

if I<string> is 'none', then no pdf viewer will be loaded.

=item B<--version>, B<-V>

prints version and exits.

=item B<--help>, B<-h>, B<-?>

prints a brief help message and exits.

=item B<--man>

prints the manual page and exits.

=item B<--verbose>=I<number>, B<-v> I<number>

set grade of verbosity to I<number>. if I<number>==0 then no output
will be given, except hard errors. the higher I<number> is, the more 
output will be printed. default: I<number> = 1.

=item B<--silent, --quiet, -q>

same as B<--verbose=0>.

=item B<--very-verbose, -vv>

same as B<--verbose=2>. you may use B<-vvv> for B<--verbose=3> a.s.o.

=item B<--verbose, -v>

same as B<--verbose=1>.

=back

=head1 LICENCE

Copyright (c) 2016, seth
All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

* Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this
list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

* Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER
CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY,
OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

originally written by seth (see https://github.com/wp-seth/wolf)

